# DigitalOcean Example Manifests

This directory contains example manifest files that can be used to create a fully-functional cluster.

## Generation

For convenience, a generation script which populates templates manifests is provided. The following files are generated by the script:
* `cluster.yaml` - defines the Cluster object,
* `machines.yaml` - defines one control plane node and one worker node,
* `machines_config.yaml` - contains the bootstrap script used to provision nodes,
* `addons.yaml` - deploys [DigitalOcean Cloud Controller Manager](https://github.com/digitalocean/digitalocean-cloud-controller-manager) and [DigitalOcean CSI plugin](https://github.com/digitalocean/csi-digitalocean).

In addition to the mentioned four manifests, in order to provision a cluster, the `provider-components.yaml` manifest must be generated using [Kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize). The `provider-components.yaml` manifest is responsible for deploying the Cluster-API Controller as well as Manager for DigitalOcean Provider which manages and reconciles Cluster-API objects related to this provider.

1. Run the generation script.
```bash
./generate-yaml.sh
```

If the yaml files already exist, you will see an error like the one below:
```bash
$ ./generate-yaml.sh
File provider-components.yaml already exists. Delete it manually before running this script.
```

In that case, make sure the remove the `out` directory before running the script, or use the `OVERWRITE` environment variable, such as:
```bash
OVERWRITE=1 ./generate-yaml.sh
```

2. Generate the `provider-components.yaml` manifest.
```bash
# Return to the project's root directory
cd ../..
# Build provider-components manifest for deploying the Manager for the DigitalOcean Provider
kustomize build config/default/ > cmd/clusterctl/examples/digitalocean/out/provider-components.yaml
# Append manifest for deploying Cluster-API Controller to the generated provider-components manifest
echo "---" >> cmd/clusterctl/examples/digitalocean/out/provider-components.yaml
kustomize build vendor/sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api/config/default/ >> cmd/clusterctl/examples/digitalocean/out/provider-components.yaml
```

## Defaults and Modifications

You may always manually curate files based on the examples provided. The generation script have default values established, which you can change by setting the appropriate environment variable.

The following environment variables are used by the script:

* `$OUTPUT_DIR` - location where generated manifests are stored. Default `./out`.
* `$REGION` - slug of region where instances will be created. Default `fra1` (Frankfurt).
* `$CLUSTER_NAME` - name of the cluster. Default `test-1`.
* `$MASTER_NAME` - name of the Master instance. The randomly generated suffix is appended to the name by the `machine-controller` on-creation. Default `digitalocean-fra1-master-`.
* `$NODE_NAME` - name of nodes. The randomly generated suffix is appended to the name by the `machine-controller` on-creation. Default `digitalocean-fra1-node-`.
* `$NAMESPACE` - namespace where Cluster and Machine objects will be deployed

The `$DIGITALOCEAN_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable must be set to the [DigitalOcean API Access Token](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/api/create-personal-access-token/) for the `machine-controller` and `cluster-controller` to work properly.
